Hello, this is Rengar.
Today, I'm going to show you a simple practice method that will help you to reduce your luck in VALORANT.
I've coached a lot of VALORANT C9 players in the past, and I've coached a lot of Radiant players.
There are a lot of people who achieved Radiant after that.
There are a lot of people who played Hearth's Grail.
Overall, it's a proven method that a lot of VALORANT users have seen.
It will be helpful if you try it once for a warm-up.
First of all, you need to know the range where you can hold the spray and make a precise aim.
Don't just turn your wrist.
Just relax your hand and move it gently.
It's going to be about this much.
It doesn't matter how you feel.
You have to move the mouse a little bit for detailed control anyway.
If the sensitivity is high, you can give it more power or narrow the range of motion.
It's kind of like this.
Of course, each person has a different range.
Don't worry about that.
If you feel like this is the range where you can make a precise aim, just check it out.
If it's hard, you can do it.
Don't hit this first.
Just practice.
First of all, make a reference point in the middle.
So, you're going to hit it here.
Hit it and come back.
Hit it and come back.
Hit it and come back.
Like this.
From the closest to the farthest.
Or you can do it from the farthest to the nearest.
The point to be careful is to come this far and push it back.
Or you can go over and go back.
You can't do this.
Even if you push it over here, it's only this far when you get to the actual point.
It's the same for going over.
You just have to go at once as if you're connecting a dot and a dot.
It's better to feel like you're pushing the mouse rather than going with your wrist or arm.
Usually, there are a lot of people who practice pulling their wrists or arms diagonally.
That's one of the reasons for the ups and downs.
Because our wrists don't always turn this much.
If you aim, the range of the range changes.
So, the wrist that was originally hit like this.
At some point, it's only up to here.
The same goes for the arm.
Depending on the condition of the arm muscle, the result is different.
Depending on the conditions.
It's not a matter of whether it's right or wrong.
So, feel the mouse a little more and move it.
What you need to check at this point is that the range of my hand is alive as the aim touches it.
You have to check it.
So, check if it's moving as the aim touches it.
Check if it's moving as the aim touches it.
You know, the range where the precise aim is possible.
I'm checking if this is moving.
So, check if the range of my precise aim is alive as the aim touches it.
You can tap it and check it.
And then you can do it once while connecting the target and the target.
Check if it's moving while connecting the target and the target.
The reason why I'm doing this is that even if I recognize the enemy and move the aim correctly,
There's no guarantee that the enemy will stay still.
And the higher the tier, the higher the level of picking and step.
Even if the enemy moves and the aim doesn't reach you at once,
You need to be able to aim precisely here to grab the spray and push the aim.
So, if you're good at shooting, you'll see that even if the bullet is shining,
You've seen a lot of people pushing the aim like this.
You can adjust the aim while moving the target.
It's a little bit of a hand movement.
It's a little bit of a hand movement.
It's a little bit of a hand movement.
At first, you can do it easily or normally.
Move the aim and check if it's possible to aim precisely.
You can do it like this.
If you get used to it, you'll be able to move it fast.
I use things that drag my wrists or arms.
If you use that, you can get to the second and third tier.
If you just grab this, it's a highlight angle.
By the time you do it, you'll be able to shoot something like this and die.
I'm not good at precise aim.
I'm not good at precise aim.
There's a lot of these types of aim.
There's a lot of these types of aim.
Next time, I'll try to connect the target to the target.
Check your hands are moving.
Check.
I'll move it and check it one more time.
Then step on it and do it.
I'll do the same thing when I hit the robot.
Then, tactically, at the end.
It would be helpful if you tap and check it one by one.
It's not about the aim.
It's a practice that naturally keeps the aim performance.
If you apply this principle, you don't have to do anything about the practice.
It's okay to do a deathmatch.
In fact, I explained it a little bit, but I'm uploading videos about AIM, so please check them out.
If there are many people who want it, I'll talk about Kass Valorant AIM in more detail.
If there are many people, I'll stop here.
Thank you for watching.
